Are you interested in data science but you're not quite working in it yet?
In software, getting that very first job can truly be the hardest one to land.
On this episode, we have Avery Smith from Data Career Jumpstart here to share his advice
for getting your first data job. This is Talk Python to Me, episode 455, recorded January 18th, 2024.
[Music]
Welcome to Talk Python to Me, a weekly podcast on Python. This is your host, Michael Kennedy.
Follow me on Mastodon, where I'm @mkennedy, and follow the podcast using @talkpython,
both on mastodon.org. Keep up with the show and listen to over seven years of past episodes at
talkpython.fm. We've started streaming most of our episodes live on YouTube. Subscribe to our
YouTube channel over at talkpython.fm/youtube to get notified about upcoming shows and be part of
that episode. This episode is brought to you by Sentry. Don't let those errors go unnoticed.
Use Sentry like we do here at Talk Python. Sign up at talkpython.fm/sentry. And it's brought to you
by Posit Connect from the makers of Shiny. Publish, share, and deploy all of your data projects that
you're creating using Python. Streamlit, Dash, Shiny, Bokeh, FastAPI, Flask, Quarto, Reports,
Dashboards, and APIs. Posit Connect supports all of them. Try Posit Connect for free by going to
talkpython.fm/posit. Hey folks, before we jump in and talk about data science jobs and careers,
I want to tell you really quickly about some awesome news. Back in February, I gave the
keynote at PyCon Philippines. It was entitled "The State of Python in 2024." Well, that is now out on
YouTube. The team at PyCon Philippines did a great job. The video came out great. If you want to
check out "The State of Python in 2024," according to me, just click on the link in the show notes to
watch it over on YouTube. Now let's talk to Avery. Avery, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
Thanks so much. I'm so excited to be here and be part of the show.
I'm excited to have you here as well. You know, one of the things that people reach out to me
often is, you know, how do you get into data science? How do you get into programming? How
do you get into Python? You know, I've been trying, or maybe they got a degree or they
took some training program, bootcamp or something, and going from zero to one, I think, is the biggest
career step you have to make. That next job and the one after that, it only gets to be smaller
steps, not bigger steps. And it's really tough because that first big step, you're brand new at
it. You have no experience, right? It's your first data science job or your first programming job.
So hopefully we can give some folks out there a little bit of a hand up to help them make that
jump. Yeah, totally. I like to show this graphic that says, it's a circle and it's a circle of
text. And it says, I can't get a job because I don't have experience because, and then it restarts,
I can't get a job. And that's the tricky part. It's like, how do you get a data science job when
you have no data science experience? Because to get data science experience, that seems like you
have to have a job as the prerequisite and vice versa. So it is very tricky. So happy to chime
in on that today. The industry can take it too far. They can take it way too far. So a few years
ago, there was a really funny tweet that went around back when they call them tweets. I don't
know what they're called anymore. Sebastian Ramirez, the guy who created FastAPI, saw a job
posting when FastAPI was like a year and a half old. It said, you must have four years of experience
with FastAPI to apply. And he said, Hey, look, I'm the creator of FastAPI and I'm unqualified for
this job. What kind of world are we living in? Yeah. I don't want to live in that world, but
that's unfortunately where we're at. That's so tough. And it's hilarious. These job descriptions
are getting out of hand. That's for sure. Yeah. Well, with AI, it's probably not going to get
better. We can talk about that more later. But before we get into that, let's just jump in with
a little bit of background on you before we get to the topic. Tell us a bit about yourself. What
do you do? How'd you get into Python? Things like that. Yeah, absolutely. So I'm currently
a data science consultant and also a data science instructor. I run some online programs where I
teach people to become data analysts mostly is what I'm focused on. But I also have this practice
where I help companies solve data problems with different techniques. I started actually by
studying chemical engineering in college in my undergraduate degree. And about a semester in,
I realized, crap, I hate this. This is not for me. Do you agree? Have you felt something similar?
I did a semester of chemical engineering as well. I thought, I love chemistry. I love math.
Put them together. Somehow they don't go together. It's like ice cream and eggs or something. No,
they don't go together for me at least. Yeah. It wasn't good for me either. I was just like,
oh man, I'm actually not interested in refineries or manufacturing. But I, like you,
liked chemistry. I liked math. I thought this is perfect. But I quickly realized, oh man,
I really like this whole programming part that I get to do in MATLAB at the time when I was an
undergrad. And I was on a time crunch to get through college quickly through eight semesters.
And the other issue I had was I didn't know what to do instead. It was like, I don't really want
to study computer science. Part of the reason why is they can't have this weed out course at
the beginning, which you had to build Excel from scratch, basically like some sort of a
spreadsheeting tool. I was like, wow, why would I rebuild something that already exists that I
don't even like using in the first place? I wasn't really into it. So I didn't know what to do. And
luckily I was working as a lab technician at this company, the really cool company that makes the
sensors that basically have the ability to smell. So they can sniff what's in the air and it has
applications for finding drugs or bombs and airports and stuff like that. And there was
a data scientist on staff and that data scientist was awesome. He was showing me all these cool
algorithms he was writing for these sensors. And then one day he got up and left and he left the
company. And we tried to hire another data scientist for six months, but they were really
expensive. We were a small company and none of them really wanted to move to Utah where I lived
in Salt Lake City. And so we couldn't really find someone that would be able to do it.
And so finally I was like, well, I really like this programming stuff. And the data scientist
showed me a thing or two, maybe I could take a stab at this. And I wrote my first machine learning
algorithm. And I was like, oh my gosh, I'm addicted to this. And then I never looked back
and had been data science since basically. What a great story. I think a lot of people
fall into programming that way. And for some reason, not unexpectedly, but for some reason,
a lot of people fall into Python that way as well. They're like, I have a job and I got this thing I
got to do. I just need a little bit more than maybe like an Excel spreadsheet or something.
And put it together and like, actually, this is cool. After a while, like this is cooler than
what I've been doing. Or maybe I'll make it a good part of what I do. Right?
Yeah. A hundred percent. Even just making, it was in MATLAB, which is basically
engineer's version of Python or college version of Python 10 years ago. Right?
Yeah.
And I made like tic-tac-toe and I remember playing tic-tac-toe against the computer.
I think that's what it was, or maybe it was hangman. I can't remember. But I remember the
idea of like being able to play, to program games and play against the computer. And I built it.
I was like, this is the coolest thing ever. I got to do more of this.
Absolutely. I've done some MATLAB too when I was younger and it's not that different from Python,
but it's, I think one of the big differences other than it just being like embedded in a
big expensive app is it's not a general purpose programming language. Right? You wouldn't go,
that was fun, but let me go build this website in MATLAB or let me create Airbnb in MATLAB or,
you know, like there's, you just don't want to sort of, Azure has this like
self-prescribed limit to what you can do with it.
That's one of the coolest parts about Python is it's really a Swiss army knife
and you can pretty much do, I don't want to say anything, but pretty close to anything
in Python, which makes it really neat. And obviously one of the huge limitations of MATLAB
is one, it costs thousands of dollars, but two, you're right. It's not going to do cybersecurity
for you. It's not going to build websites, but the syntax at the end of the day was,
was really quick. It was, it was easy for me to transition from MATLAB to Python because the
syntax isn't all that different.
No, it's not all that different. More math focused, but pretty similar. So I think maybe
that's a good place to start discussing and exploring this topic of your first data science
job. And wouldn't necessarily plan on starting here, but let's, let's start with before you
even necessarily know programming language, right? Maybe you've dabbled in MATLAB or you've
dabbled in Excel or even dabbled in, I don't know, JavaScript or something. This thing
we've been talking about with MATLAB and it applies to other areas as well, like through
programming languages per se, like Julia or something like that is how, if you invest
your time into learning one of these things really well, like how broadly industry-wide
of a skill, high demand skill is that going to be, right? You learn MATLAB, you put yourself
in a box, you learn a more general programming language, you kind of have more options afterwards,
right?
Yeah, totally. I think like the more broad of a language you learn, the more useful you
are to, to more industries in general. But I might take that even a step further and
just say, you know, learning MATLAB, not a whole lot of companies use MATLAB, but just
like landing your first data job, going from zero to one is the hardest. Learning your
first language zero to one is the hardest as well. And then once you have that first
language, the next language becomes so much easier. So one of the first things I learned
was, was MATLAB and then I moved to Python and that was easier. And then I learned SQL
and then I learned R and then I learned JavaScript. And every time I added like a new tool to
my toolkit, it was quite, not what I want to say, it was easy, but it got easier with
each one. I think that's true with foreign languages as well. Once you learn one foreign
language, then the third and the fourth become quite easy. At least that's, that's what
I heard. I speak kind of two and a half languages, but like there's people who speak like seven
and they always say like the sixth and the seventh become easy.
Yeah. You wonder how could you possibly, because learning the first one is so hard,
first foreign language. So you're like, well, how could you possibly take that on for this
many languages? And it's that it's not the same challenge each time, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. So I think when people are considering getting into data science, they really want
to consider what language they choose and where they go. Like you're coming out of a
college program, you might feel like MATLAB or something like that's real popular. And
yet that's because it's popular amongst professors who force their students to do it. That doesn't
necessarily mean that's the world, the broad worldview. What do you think about R? You
know, both.
I like R. I'm not, I sometimes troll R on LinkedIn. So I guess that's another thing
I should say is I post a lot on LinkedIn, kind of a LinkedIn guy. And so a lot of the
times, honestly, just for jokes and kicks and giggles, I'll kind of roast R on LinkedIn
just to get the trolls angry in the comments. And it's quite fun. It's quite a fun experience,
but I'm not that big of a hater. I definitely think R has its place.
The one thing that's really interesting about R versus Python is obviously a big debate
in the data science community is R is kind of that does one thing really well. And it's
getting a little less of that as more packages and libraries are added to R, but R does the
statistics and machine learning very well. But obviously I don't think once again, I
don't know any websites, any like super functioning websites that are built on R.
I don't know any cybersecurity that's really done, done via R. So I think R does what it
does well. The syntax sometimes is a lot easier for people to go from Excel, which a lot of
people are more familiar with in the finance or banking world. For example, the syntax
in R is a little bit more similar to those Excel formulas than it is to Python. So I
think sometimes people have a little bit more success just because, oh, this kind of feels
like R formulas, or sorry, this feels like Excel formulas. And so people really get there.
I think what you're kind of alluding to is if you're going to learn one skill, you
might as well learn the one skill that's applicable to the most, the widest net. Right?
And so that way you're fishing in the biggest lake you possibly could versus in a smaller
pond of R. I think that's worth looking at. And one of the things I actually really enjoy
doing, because you mentioned, oh, you might think MATLAB is popular because that's what
the professors taught you. And there's actually not a whole lot of data out there about, well,
what should you learn? So I don't know if you know who Luke Bruce is. He's a data analyst
YouTuber. I was going to say YouTuber on YouTube, but that's kind of redundant on YouTube.
And one of the things he's done is he's actually built this tool where he's web scraping
thousands of jobs, different data jobs every week, and then displaying and analyzing the
skills required for those jobs. So it's actually like a data-driven way of saying, if you want
to be a data scientist, what skills should you actually be focusing on as you go, as
opposed to just listening to what a professor will say or what a LinkedIn influencer will
say or what your bootcamp will say. Like actually getting some data on, I think is pretty neat.
That is super cool. And I'm not familiar with Luke, so we're going to dig him up and put
him in the show notes for later so people can check that out. Do you remember any of
the trends he's recently talked about?
It's datanerd.tech, I think is the website there. I look at it mostly for data analysts
because that's who I work with the most. So I know the data analyst data very well.
SQL is number one at 50%. I think Python is number two at like 30%.
I think Python might've jumped it.
Well, this is for all data positions right here. So the job title you can choose.
Ah, okay. So which one are you thinking I should pick here? Data?
Maybe data scientist.
Data scientist, yeah. Right.
That's what Suda says.
Yeah, you're right.
Wow.
Whoa, Python 69%. Look at that.
That's huge. So like that's even, that's even what? 20% more than SQL, which a lot of people
are like, if you want to be a data scientist, you have to know SQL. If you look at the job
descriptions, Python's mentioned a lot more. So if you're going to learn, if you're brand new
and you're going to learn one, you might as well start with Python because that's probably the
most in-demand skill that there is right now for a data scientist.
Yeah. And it's pretty easy, right? It's not like, well, why don't you just learn C++
for embedded devices? You're like, you know what? Maybe I'll pick something else to start with.
Right. But you know, Python's pretty easy.
I agree with you. I think Python's great. I actually think, I think SQL is probably easier
to learn if I'm being honest, because really, especially for like data science stuff, there's
only about like 20 commands that you need to know in SQL, but it's once again, SQL is a lot more,
there's no websites built on SQL. I'll tell you that much. So it's a lot more limited on what it
can do.
It's a skill, but not the language. It's not enough on its own, generally. I mean,
you can do reports and quite a bit with it, but you know, it's like when you see these programming
popular, you're like, what's the most popular language? Oh, look, CSS is the third most
popular. Like that's not a language. That's a thing that you use with other languages, right?
Like use it with all the other languages. That's why it's high up, but that doesn't mean it's high
in demand. Exactly. It's just like table stakes, you know? So you kind of got to distinguish table
stakes from like picking an area, I think.
That's totally true. And really I think Pythonistas could make the argument that there's
really nothing in SQL that you couldn't do in Python. That's a little somewhat true, depending
on data size and stuff like that. But regardless, there is ways that you can do most of the SQL
commands in Python one way or another. It could be, when I first became a data scientist, I didn't
even know SQL and I was doing SQL commands or I was doing the aggregations or the where functions
or the window functions using Python. So you definitely can, as long as your data is not like
super big, then you'll totally be fine.
Right. Like some kind of generator or even slices or yeah, things like that, right? List
comprehensions, set comprehensions, all that kind of stuff. Kind of like, gosh, I really wish,
a little bit of a sidebar, but I wish like list comprehensions and all those things had just a
few more SQL features, right? Like in a list comprehension, I say, give me this thing,
maybe give me this property of this class modified, like give me the user's name,
uppercase, right? So that's like select. And then for thing in collection, that's like
from table or whatever. Right. And then you have the where clause with the if statement, but boy,
wouldn't it be cool to have like a sort also in there and other things like that, you know?
Oh, well, totally.
It's so close.
The cool thing is, is if you want that sort, it's what one extra line, like it's not too bad. So
it, Python, I mean, I don't want to say this necessarily to hate all, to make all the data
scientists and SQL lovers mad, but, but really Python can do a lot of the things that SQL.
That's for sure.
Yeah, that's for sure.
This portion of Talk Python to Me is brought to you by Sentry. Code breaks. It's a fact of life.
With Sentry, you can fix it faster. As I've told you all before, we use Sentry on many of our apps
and APIs here at Talk Python. I recently used Sentry to help me track down one of the weirdest
bugs I've run into in a long time. Here's what happened. When signing up for our mailing list,
it would crash under a non-common execution paths, like situations where someone was already
subscribed or entered an invalid email address or something like this. The bizarre part was that our
logging of that unusual condition itself was crashing. How is it possible for her log to crash?
It's basically a glorified print statement. Well, Sentry to the rescue.
I'm looking at the crash report right now, and I see way more information than you'd expect to find
in any log statement. And because it's production, debuggers are out of the question. I see the
trace back, of course, but also the browser version, client OS, server OS, server OS version,
whether it's production or Q&A, the email and name of the person signing up. That's the person who
actually experienced the crash. Dictionaries of data on the call stack and so much more.
What was the problem? I initialized the logger with the string info for the level rather than
the enumeration dot info, which was an integer based enum. So the logging statement would crash
saying that I could not use less than or equal to between strings and ints. Crazy town. But with
Sentry, I captured it, fixed it, and I even helped the user who experienced that crash.
Don't fly blind. Fix code faster with Sentry. Create your Sentry account now at talkpython.fm/Sentry.
And if you sign up with the code TALKPYTHON, all capital, no spaces, it's good for two free months
of Sentry's business plan, which will give you up to 20 times as many monthly events as well as
other features. Probably the biggest, it's a bit of a diversion, but the biggest similarity to that
I've seen in the languages is C#'s link, where they actually have almost all the query operators,
including joins and stuff like that, built into the programming language. I'd love to see more of
that kind of inspiration into Python, but you know, that's all right. It's still really good.
Got a lot of cool SQL-like features, but you're right, once you are no longer working with data
and memory or you want indexes, right? Like this concept of indexes is not sufficiently well
understood, I think. Every time I hit a website that takes five seconds to load, I'm like,
somebody is not doing all the things they should be doing. I just know it.
That's totally true.
What about SQL? You know, let's talk about that for a bit, right? The SQL, the query language
for databases and other things. There's ways to SQL query, not just relational databases.
But you said you got away with not quite learning that, but do you think if you could start over,
maybe making an effort to learn that would be really valuable? Like how important is this
a thing in the beginning of your career?
The interesting thing, you know, about landing a data job is your skills only plays, I say,
a third of the role. Your portfolio or the way that you portray your skills and your network,
I think, are the other two thirds and are actually more important than your skills. And that's kind
of how I got away with not knowing SQL and not even being, to be honest, that good at Python
at the time was because I used my network to be in the situation to get my lab technician job in
the first place. And then once again, I use that same network, in this case, my coworkers to land
that first data scientist position after we couldn't hire anyone. And if I would have been
applying externally for that role, chances are I wouldn't have gotten that role. I probably didn't
know enough at the time to land that type of a role, but because they knew I was hardworking,
they knew I wasn't like a total idiot and I really liked to learn, they took that chance on me.
It paid off really well for them because at the time I was still in college. And so I wasn't
getting paid that much and I was not getting paid like a data scientist, but I was getting results
like a data scientist for them. So I think it paid off for both of us. But I think if that was
an external job and I applied for it, I probably didn't have enough skills for it. So I definitely
think learning SQL, if you want to land a data science job, isn't a bad place to start, especially
because like I said, I mean, any programming language, I like to think of like the iceberg,
kind of like the Titanic, right? There's the parts that you see and then there's the parts that you
don't even know that are there. And really you could spend the rest of your life trying to master
SQL or the rest of your life trying to learn Python. But the cool thing is, is a lot of the
time you only need that top little bit that's sitting at the top of the surface of the water
to actually get stuff done. And so for SQL, I think that's like 20 commands. And I think you
could learn it honestly in like a month. You could learn those 20 commands pretty easily.
But it worked out for me and I didn't have to use it that much at the time until I was probably about
almost three years into my job. And I actually had switched jobs to a bigger company. The other
thing that I was working for a smaller company where we didn't have a ton of data. So we could
use CSVs kind of as our database, which is not great practice. But when I eventually became a
data scientist at ExxonMobil, I was going to say they didn't use Excel as a database, but they
still did. But the point is they had much larger SQL databases with hundreds of thousands, actually
millions of rows of data that I had to query. Yeah. Then you got to be really, you need to
understand it at a much deeper level. You're like, if you do a query like this, it's going to be
super slow. But if you do it like that, it can use the composite index for the sort and then
all right, then you're getting to the bottom of the iceberg in SQL, or maybe not the bottom,
maybe like the middle chunk under the water, but there's so much to learn for both of them.
Amira, the audience asks, when you talk data job, what kind of jobs are out there? So we talked
both about how we did chemical engineering, and then we saw chemical factories. You're like,
yeah, I don't really want to work here anymore. I'm out. So thinking about, well, what are the
kind of jobs you do? I think that's really important because it's easy to get focused in
on the FANG companies. I want to work for some super big tech company. I want to move to San
Francisco and like that, that, that, right. Like there's not just plenty of other jobs,
but the opportunities, just like you described, and as well as my first job, I worked at a company
that had like eight people and it was awesome. Right. They didn't expect me to be, you know,
running Kubernetes clusters and doing all sorts of crazy. They're just like, I need you to make
this thing happen. Can you do like, I'm pretty new, but that thing I can make that happen.
Like, let's go. Right. And I feel like the, the possibilities to get in, especially with these,
maybe more niche type of industries and companies might even be easier for a first job.
People seem to be really obsessed with, with the FANG. And I don't know if that's like a
societal thing or if it's just, those are the companies that we use a lot. And so we're excited
about them, but yeah, there's so many more data jobs outside of FANG than there are inside of
FANG, even though there's, there's quite a bit inside of FANG. And oftentimes those roles can be
much more interesting and you can do a lot bigger of an impact. When, when I was working at this
small company, VaporSense, I like, I had so much power. I didn't even realize it. I had such a big
effect on the company. I was presenting to, you know, fortune 500 companies and what I did really
made a difference. And when it came to the point where ExxonMobil offered me to go be a data
scientist for Exxon, I said, Oh, I want to go work for the big company with the nice desk and the
nice laptop and, you know, try something new. And when I got there, I really, I had some pretty cool
opportunities when I was at ExxonMobil, but ultimately I left pretty shortly after two years
of being there because I just felt like a cog in the machine. And I didn't feel like I was actually
making a difference. And that was really important to my work satisfaction of like, is what I'm doing
being used? Is it being used to better the world? Do I feel valued? And the answer was kind of no
for me when I was there. So there's definitely a trade-off between the small companies and the,
and the big companies, but also to go back to your original question, there are so many freaking
roles in the data world that you're not even thinking of that. Like, I'm not even thinking of,
I saw a new one the other day when I was helping one of my students, it was like, it wasn't data
janitor, but it was something like that where I was like, I don't even know what that role is,
but there's, there's so many roles. When I was, when I was a data scientist,
VaporSense, the small company, my actual title was junior chemo-matrician, which basically means
you're doing data science with chemistry. When I was at ExxonMobil, when I was first there,
I was doing data science, but my actual title was optimization engineer. And so there's so
many titles that we don't even think to search of, or even to look up, but those are all data
science roles. I was doing machine learning every day in both those roles. And you would maybe never
guess from those titles. - Yeah. You would never guess. No,
that's awesome. What machine learning libraries, frameworks were using?
- At VaporSense, once again, because it's a smaller company, I had a lot more say in what
I was doing. We were building a bunch of machine, we were building classification models to basically
to take the data from our sensors and sniff if something was in the air. Sometimes that was a
yes, no, like, oh yes, there is ammonia in the semiconductor factory and that's bad. So that's
a yes classification kind of binary, right? Other times it was, what drug is this? Is this meth or
is this heroin? One of the use cases we had was, this is binary once again, but is this recreational
marijuana or medicinal marijuana? And can we tell the difference between those? So we were usually
using classification models, usually built in scikit-learn in Python the majority of the time
there. When I was at Exxon, we had a lot less say, like the data scientists had a lot less say
in the decision making process. We were doing a lot of multivariate linear regression with a lot of
crazy hacks and transformations kind of in the meantime for one of my positions there.
And then the other time, the other position I did there, we were doing a lot of auto ML
using PyCaret and letting it kind of decide what type of models to do. So.
- Okay. The unsupervised learning type stuff, huh?
- It was awesome. It was really fun to, I love PyCaret because it's like, okay,
go make 25 models and tell me which one's the best. It's like, makes my job easy, I guess.
- We're going to be creative with sheer numbers. That's how we're going to come up with a solution.
Got it.
- Exactly.
- Well, Diego is asking like, what are some of the common stats
methods as in mathematical type stuff you would use? So one of the things I know that some people
getting into programming think is you got to be really good at math to be a programmer. I think
you got to be really good at logical thinking, but you need to almost zero math, be like a web
developer. You know, we're talking percents for CSS, incrementing numbers from one to two to two
to three for IDs and stuff like that. But for data science, maybe there's a little bit more like,
where do you see that kind of background?
- I like what you said. You have to think logically, but maybe the math isn't as important.
And I think it's actually somewhat similar in data science. I will say you probably need a
little bit more math than a web developer, but I think it's a lot less than most people think.
And it's probably less about being able to do the math and maybe more about understanding
the mathematical concepts. And what I mean by that is a lot of, a lot of, so I also have a
master's degree in data analytics. A lot of master's degrees in data science and data analytics
will say you need calculus and linear algebra as kind of a background for your math. And that kind
of stops people. I don't want to do any calculus. I don't want to do any linear algebra. And while
both those concepts do exist in data science principles, the majority of the time the computer,
Python is doing the math. You just have to be able to interpret the results of the math and kind of
know what different directions, like this is going down on an optimization problem. Okay. That's the
derivative, getting closer to zero. It's really less about knowing how to do the math by hand
and more just understanding what the math of the computer is actually doing.
So I think it's actually a lot easier than most people say. That being said,
knowing how to do a derivative or take an integral, those concepts, I think is probably underlying
pretty important. But other than that, a lot of the times I'm doing linear regression because
it's awesome. It gets the job done. A lot of the time I'm doing hypothesis testing and statistics,
which you have to look like at a P score, nothing all that crazy. At Exxon, I had to do a lot of
linear programming, but that's honestly, that's like the exception versus the rule. There's not
a whole lot of linear programming for most data scientists. So I really don't think the math is
all that hard. Now, of course, that's coming from someone who got a chemical engineering degree,
who had to take all the calculus, all the linear algebra. So I did go through those courses. I
haven't really done it from scratch from a lot of my students are teachers, for example, who never
took those courses in college. So I can't speak from that perspective, but a lot of my students
are able to figure it out at the end of the day and transfer. So it happens.
Yeah, yeah, for sure. I think you make a good point. I think it's about knowing, okay, this
formula or this algorithm or this test means this thing. It applies in this situation. It doesn't
apply in that situation. Here's what you're trying to get from it, right? Like I know I need to do a
fast Fourier transform. So, and this is what it tells me when I get out the other side, but do I
need to be able to sit down and recreate the integral and the calculus behind it and do that
on like a home, like as a homework example, and like, give me a function and I'll do the Fourier
transform and I'll actually do the symbolic integration. Like, no, you probably don't need
that. Right. But you need to know, I do the Fourier transform in this situation, and this is
why. And then I just say, call the function, do it. Right.
And interpret the results. Really? That's what being a data scientist is all about is, yeah.
What does the business use case, what's the desired business use case? How do I relate that
use case to the data? What technique can I use to get the outcome that I need? Computer go do it,
interpret results, present to stakeholders. That's a data scientist right there.
I think one of the challenges with that is going to be, not that it's not good, but I think it's
going to be challenging because how do you learn when to use a certain statistical test or when to
do some kind of funky transformation, like a Fourier transform without more traditional
mathematical backgrounds and all the academics will not just go, oh, we're just going to give
you like five minute overview and they'll help you understand. They're like, nope, we're going
to start with this axiom or this theorem from differential equations. I'm going to work up.
You're like, no, no, no, no, no. I don't need that. I don't, I'm not on a four year plan.
I'm on a four week plan. How do I, how do I get value from a couple of the mathematical things
without being sucked into like, yeah, now I'm in differential equations at Harvard online and I
don't understand how I got there. It's such a big problem. And I'm so glad you brought this up.
And I'll be vulnerable because yeah, I felt the same, the same way. And I was like, there has to
be a better way. And so about, what was it? Three years ago now, two and a half years ago, three
years ago, I said, oh my gosh, I'm going to solve this problem. And I'm going to start my own data
science bootcamp. And so I spent about six months making the curriculum, making all the videos.
I opened it up. I got some students in there and I ran it for about six months and I looked at the
results and man, we weren't getting anyone into data science jobs. And I thought, ah, what the
heck am I doing wrong? I had this brilliant idea of like, we're going to be less theory, more
project, more hands-on. And I realized, man, the truth is people just learn better at work.
That's where you learn that whole technique that you just like, how does someone learn that? The
answer is by getting experience and learning it at work. And when I looked back and I said, okay,
well, we have had students get jobs. What jobs did they get? And it turns out most of them were
getting like business intelligence engineer jobs or data analysts or financial analyst jobs that
were a little bit below a data scientist job. And I realized, oh man, if we can just help people go
from zero to one and get their foot in the door, they can go from one to five much quicker at work
because work is just, I don't know, it's this magical place where like you said, whatever you
were working at earlier, and they're like, hey, can you do this Kubernetes thing? They just kind
of throw you in the fire and you're like, figure it out. And that's somehow you do. I don't know
what it is about work, but you figure it out and that's where you learn. So that's kind of why I
changed my curriculum to be more focused on, okay, maybe people aren't going to become data
scientists, but can we get them to zero to one quickly? And then they can get paid to learn the
rest of the data science stuff when they're actually in that first position. - How much do
you know about what you actually want to do in the industry before you've done it as well?
- Right. - You're like, oh, I thought
everybody said machine learning was awesome and I've used ChatGPT and I loved it, but it turns
out actually like API is better, but I've never had a chance to build an API. So until I started,
I didn't even learn that one, it was a thing, two, that it was cool or vice versa, right? Whatever.
But until you get kind of in, you don't even know like, actually this part is where I really
am enjoying it. And so just getting that first step, that's a big deal. - A hundred percent. You
don't know what you don't know until you know it. That's why, I mean, really when it comes to,
if we go back to just SQL or just Python, you could spend, I tell people this, if you tried
to master Python before you applied to a job, you'd be like 80 years old before you ever applied
to a job. Same with SQL, same with machine learning. The cool thing about data is we're
never going to know it all. And so just learn the bare minimum to get your foot in the door.
And then you have this place where you're going to get paid to learn what you want to learn
eventually. If you learn, oh, I love APIs. I promise you that there's a company out there
that will hire you and you can learn APIs on the job. Like that's going to happen. But that first
step is so true. - There's a company out there that it doesn't know it needs APIs, but you could
help them. And you know, they don't have huge expectations because this is the thing they just
learned they needed. Right? - A hundred percent. - Yeah. It's wild. Right? This portion of Talk
Python to Me is brought to you by Posit, the makers of Shiny, formerly RStudio, and especially
Shiny for Python. Let me ask you a question. Are you building awesome things? Of course you are.
You're a developer or data scientist. That's what we do. And you should check out Posit Connect.
Posit Connect is a way for you to publish, share, and deploy all the data products that you're
building using Python. People ask me the same question all the time. Michael, I have some cool
data science project or notebook that I built. How do I share it with my users, stakeholders,
teammates? Do I need to learn FastAPI or Flask or maybe Vue or ReactJS? Hold on now. Those are cool
technologies and I'm sure you'd benefit from them, but maybe stay focused on the data project.
Let Posit Connect handle that side of things. With Posit Connect, you can rapidly and securely
deploy the things you build in Python. Streamlit, Dash, Shiny, Bokeh, FastAPI, Flask, Quarto,
Ports, Dashboards, and APIs. Posit Connect supports all of them. And Posit Connect comes with all the
bells and whistles to satisfy IT and other enterprise requirements. Make deployment the
easiest step in your workflow with Posit Connect. For a limited time, you can try Posit Connect for
free for three months by going to talkpython.fm/posit. That's talkpython.fm/posit. The
link is in your podcast player show notes. Thank you to the team at Posit for supporting Talk Python.
All right. Let's talk about some career advice. I mean, I know you talked about being connected on
LinkedIn pretty well and certainly having some kind of social network support. And maybe it's
not that you would call it not social, but a real world network of actual human beings that you
physically know somehow. What's that? I don't know what that is.
I know. We gave that up back in 2020, I thought. Anyway, there was some stat that I saw somewhere
that over half of the jobs are fulfilled before it even becomes a job posting. Maybe some of the
best ones is like, "Hey, who knows somebody who can do this?" We need some like your data scientist,
data scientist example. They quit. We need somebody. Anybody know a good data scientist?
I don't want to just go put it out on the open job market and have to have a hundred interviews and
who knows what I'm going to get. If you can recommend somebody, let's start there. Right?
So being in that group to be recommended, it's important.
It's the key. There was a really interesting survey done on LinkedIn and they said,
it was done by the same person and Jordan Nelson, by the way. He said,
"How do you approach getting a job?" And then the next day he said, "How did you get your last job?"
And 80% of people, they use what I call the spray and pray method, which basically means you go and
you apply to as many jobs as you possibly can and hope for the best, cross your fingers. That was 80%
of what people were doing. And then on the next poll the next day, it was a total, I think of what,
70% were either headhunted, recruited or referred. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
And so it's like the Pareto principle here where 80% of the effort is only getting you 20% of the
results and really 20% of the effort gets 80% of the results. So it's okay. We know networking and
getting recruited is really important, but how do we do it? It's easier said than done. And like
you said- In the industry, how do I make friends who are, right? It's like, well, my neighbors
don't do it, so I guess I'm out. That's the tricky thing is, yeah, if you're not in the industry yet,
how do you get recruited into it or how do you know someone? And what I've come to learn is it
actually doesn't even matter. So like, for instance, let's take your neighbor, right?
Your neighbor is probably not a data scientist. Maybe you're lucky and they are, and they can
refer you to a company. But what's really cool is I've learned that companies really come to trust
their employees and their employees' recommendations. And so even if your neighbor, let's
say, is a web developer or maybe even less technical, let's just say your recruiter is in
finance, right? And if there's an opening, like a data science opening at that company, a lot of
the times they will actually take their employee referrals much more seriously than any sort of
cold application that they get. And so a lot of the times I've had students who just know someone
that works at the company. They saw a job opening pop up. They're quickly, they message their
friends, "Hey, do you know a recruiter or a hiring manager? I could talk more about this role. Could
you do an internal referral for me?" And they were able to land jobs that they probably wouldn't
have. No, they definitely wouldn't have without that internal referral. So it is tricky. It's
that old cliche. It's not what you know, it's who you know.
I think there's still plenty of ways, COVID notwithstanding. I think that these days there's
plenty of ways to get those connections, right? But maybe people don't know. Like
meetup.com is really good. If you live in a non-tiny city, there's many, many things going on
around data science, around Python, around other data engineering, whatever, right? You could go
to those things. They're typically even free. Often they are free with food. They even feed
you, right? And make connections or regional conferences or national conferences, right?
We probably, many people have heard of PyCon, right? There's US PyCon, there's EuroPython,
and then there's, but those are the ones that are often talked about, but there's 10, 20 little
smaller regional ones in the US and many more that I'm not aware of throughout the world. Probably
one of those within driving distance, right? That you could go to, make connections and just also
kind of take the temperature of actually what you see on the internet versus what you see
and actually talking to real people. So I'd also say just get out there.
A hundred percent. Those places have the people who probably want to hire you because they're
local, right? Which is one thing that's trouble on LinkedIn. I'm big on networking on LinkedIn,
but a lot of the times you're going to be networking with people who in all likelihood
might never have a role that's even open to you. But the people that you're like, for instance,
we have, I'm in Utah and we have Silicon Slopes that has a tech meetup. We have a local Python
meetup chapter. We have the big data and developers conference that's free every year
with tons of food. And the people who go there are people from companies around there that have
the openings that you're trying to find and they want to hire people like you who are in the area.
So at least you can maybe come to the office once a week or maybe once a month or whatever, right?
And so really, like you said, going to those meetups, it's tough because networking is always
difficult either online or in person, but at least in those situations, you know, Hey, these are
people that are tied to real companies that exist around me that do make data hires. So I have a
chance. Definitely a much higher chance than just shooting out a resume. All right, well, let's see.
We talked about job hunting already. What about like applications and resumes? What are your
thoughts on that? I think once again, with the applications, the more targeted that you can make
it, the better, right? So if you can really hone in on, I really want this job, I'm going to cold
message five people at this company and see if I can get that internal referral one way or another,
make a real connection with them. I think that's really key. And then with resumes, resumes are
more of an art than they are a science. I feel like they are so difficult to figure out. And
these ATSs that are trying to match you and see if you're a good fit. I've tried a lot of them and a
lot of them suck. Whoever's the data scientist behind those, we need to have a conversation
with them because it's a little tricky sometimes. But one of the coolest concepts I've been
introduced to recently, and I have a whole episode on my podcast about it, is A/B testing your resume.
And basically the idea is a resume's job is just to get you a screener interview or like a beginner
interview, basically, right? That's all an interview. No one's seeing a resume and then
hiring you. They're always going to interviews. So if you think about it, a resume's job,
the only job it has is to convince someone to get on the phone and talk to you. And it's just a
piece of paper. And guess what? You can put whatever you want on that piece of paper.
Now, I'm not saying to lie, but I'm just saying you could theoretically make a perfect resume for
whatever job you're trying to go for and send it out there and see what happens, right? But I'm not
saying to do that. I'm not saying to lie. My point in saying this is that the resume is just to get
you the interview. And if you're not getting interviews, something's probably wrong with your
resume. And so tweak something, apply to 10 more jobs, see what happens. Tweak something, apply to
10 more jobs, see what happens. Until you finally have the right combination of skills, of experiences,
of different keywords. Because a lot of the time you're just trying to beat the ATS. And that's the
sad part about it. It's like, how do I prove to this random computer algorithm that they should
talk to me on the phone? That's a hard game to beat. And there's a whole bunch of advice from
all these different people. What I've come to learn is it's different for every company. It's
different for every person. You kind of a numbers game until you get lucky and you figure it out.
That's good advice. I guess two thoughts. One is I know that speaking specifically to anyone,
but in general, women wait until they match all the requirements of a position where a guy's like,
I know three of those things. I'm taking a flyer. I'm sending it. I would just like to
encourage the women out there to just send it as well.
I a hundred percent agree with that. And I think if you reach 60% of the requirements,
I think you have a chance. A lot of the times those are wishlists and not actual requirements.
And depending on, are you local to the area? Do you have a domain experience in this company?
There's lots of other factors. What about contributing to open source
or having GitHub repos that can be projects that you can show off? Or what's your advice there?
I'm a huge proponent of projects in the portfolio. I think if you don't have experience with
something, you create your own by building a project. And if you can do that with open source,
I think you should totally do that because I've benefited so much from open source.
I have not given back as much as I should to open source development and projects. I definitely
should do that. But if you can find a project that you're passionate about that you can help with,
I think you should totally do that. Even if it's not open source and you're just building a project
to showcase your skills, I'm all about that. I think you can do projects that are super fun,
maybe that are good for your community or good for your life. I'm a huge fan of personal projects.
I've put a Fitbit on my dog before and looked at her steps. I've found the healthiest meal
at McDonald's. I've looked at, visualized my weight over time and tried to create different
forecasting models and stuff like that. There's so much data in our lives that you can use to
make really cool projects. Oh, absolutely. You talked about,
okay, you get your first job and that's where you kind of really learn. But if you don't have
your first job, you can effectively simulate that. Say I would have gone to a job and been given a
project to analyze something. I'm just interested in this thing. I've got two hours a day until I
get a job that I can be inspired about this and just get going on it. Maybe create a website and
publish your results and it can draw more people in to actually see that and start to appreciate.
They could even ask, all right, who's behind this cool project? Maybe I want them to come
work for me. Little did they know you're doing all this work because you got some spare time
and you're trying to build up your experience and a self-guided study, right?
Yeah. If you can build a cool project and flip the job hunt where you're not applying for jobs,
but jobs start to apply for you, you're in such a good position and doing really cool projects
can help you get there. Now it's hard to do cool projects. It's hard to publish projects,
which is one of the things that people really struggle with. For all you Python listeners out
there, let me just tell you, Streamlit is absolutely amazing because it makes the deployment
process so easy. It's free. It's a little tricky to deploy at first, but compared to what you used
to have to do back in the day, I'm saying back in the day, like four years ago, basically,
but it was really hard to deploy something where you could send someone a URL, "Hey,
check out my web application, machine learning application." Streamlit is such a cool app that
makes it so easy and so intuitive to make these cool little apps that you can just put on your
resume, put on your portfolio, send to recruiters. I'm such a fan of the Streamlit app. I love it.
Yeah. It's super cool. There's a couple of those and Streamlit's definitely one of the really nice
ones there. They host it. There's also, there's like some hosting behind Streamlit as well these
days, right? Like you don't even have to set up a server or anything. You just create it and put it
up there. That's what I'm saying is like back in the day, I use Dash a lot and I'm still a big fan
of Dash. Dash is more customizable than Streamlit and can do quite a bit more, but it's a lot more
work to deploy it. It's more like programming. Yeah, it is. It is more, a lot more programming.
Programming the UI rather than just the behind the scenes. Yeah.
It's, you have to do, yeah, you have to do both and you have to like know a little bit about like
systems and data engineering and stuff like that versus Streamlit kind of takes that,
abstracts that away. But yeah, back in the day, I used to make Dash web applications and deploy
them on Heroku back when they had a free tier of hosting and they've taken that away. So I don't
even know what the go-to free hosting platform is nowadays. I just, I moved most of my things
to Streamlit and it's so nice. Yeah. We got Shiny for Python now, which is also nice.
I haven't checked that out. How is it? I haven't done too much with it either,
but they're, Joe and the team over there are doing pretty cool stuff, like adding more like
dynamic interactive stuff to Jupyter, like running it inside Jupyter and things. Yeah. Pretty cool.
I'll have to check it out. I think they also do a bunch of hosting stuff
over there as well, is why it came to mind. What other advice do you got for folks out there? So
AI, is AI, not studying AI or learning to use AI, machine learning, but is there a benefit of trying
to, you know, like use ChatGPT to help you get this job? Or is there a danger? Like I'm thinking,
for example, like have a ChatGPT, write me a awesome resume. And then the tools are like,
well, we've detected this as AI generated and it's out. You know what I mean? Like,
what do you see happening there? A lot of people see AI as like an all or nothing tool as in it's,
it's either you, the human doing the work or it's the AI doing the work. But whenever,
I don't know about you, but whenever I'm using ChatGPT for anything, it's very rare.
It's copy and paste for me, or at least not iterative where I'm doing multiple prompts,
prompt after prompt, after prompt, trying to tweak it exactly what I want. And so the way I look at
ChatGPT and other gen AI that will be coming out, that's only inevitable is instead of looking at,
does this replace me? Does this, like, for instance, am I going to build my whole resume
using ChatGPT? Am I going to build, can ChatGPT build, you know, take a data scientist's job and
build the whole model for them? I like to see it more as like a hammer. It's like a tool for the
data scientist or a tool for the job searcher to use in conjunction with your screwdriver or
it's like something to be wielded by human, not replaced for the human. That makes sense.
You know, it's really good for stuff like, Hey, here's, I know a regular expression will do this.
Yeah. The last time I studied, I completely forgot what this is about and I know it's gnarly,
but if I just ask, here's an example, here's what I want. Boom. And traditionally what you would end
up doing is you'd be on stack overflow. Yeah. Be all over the internet. You'd be trying to piece
it together from external information anyway. And so code is something that's a little bit
more in the wheelhouse of the generative AI because it can't really make it up as much.
I know it could like do something insecure and you didn't know it was or whatever, but
it's not like asking for legal advice where it makes up cases that didn't exist. Like
it gives you code, you put it in the runtime or the compiler and it runs or it doesn't,
the output comes like you did. Yeah. It works or not. Yeah. So it's, it's pretty,
pretty effective for that. But yeah, for resumes, I would be more like, let me ask it,
what are the in demand things? And if I know these three skills, what other skills should I know to
get a, you could sort of use it in an explorative way to then come up with what you might write for
yourself. Right. Something like this. I find it really useful for brainstorming, like action
verbs on your resume bullets. Like, I think it's really good at that. What's 10 different ways to
say led. So I don't say led five times on my resume and I use some different action bullets.
I think it's great at that. I personally, it's pretty rare that I start any Python code from
scratch nowadays. I'm either starting hopefully from a template that I've already written,
or I'm starting from a ChatGPT. Like this is what I kind of want to accomplish,
right? Like the outline for it. Like one of the things I hate doing is I make a lot of
streamlet apps. I probably make a streamlet app a month right now. And I hate starting from scratch
with streamlet. It's super easy to start from scratch, but I'll say, Hey, ChatGPT, I want to
build a streamlet app. This is like the component I want here. This is the component I want here.
This is the component I want here. And it's almost like a warmup for me as a programmer
and it will create, it'll create something that works. It's not what I want. And I spend the
next five hours trying to make it what I want, you know, without ChatGPT, but it kind of gives me a
warm start to my programming process. So I really like it. I think it's something that everyone
should use. And I think if you're thinking about getting into any sort of programming, you know,
whether it's data science or, or web development, I think you should be a little bit less worried
about it taking your job and job security. I think you should almost be more excited that,
wow, the bar has never been lower to break into tech. Like this is a step up gift from the
programming gods that I get to use to break in the deck.
Another thing to keep in mind is I imagine a lot of people listening to this podcast are not just
starting a college program, right? They're coming from possibly other experiences, other specialties.
You know, what's really good for job security, knowing the intersection of two things,
the intersection of chemistry and programming, the intersection of geology and programming
for Exxon potentially, right? Like those things take you from a pool of a thousand to a pool of
tens. Right. And so what's awesome about that is it means two things. You don't throw away.
If you got a degree in something else like biology or whatever, you don't throw away like,
well, that was wasted four years. That's out. And it slices the pool of people who could apply
for certain jobs way, way smaller. Right. Sounds like you agree.
Oh, a thousand percent. I'll just tell a quick little anecdote. When I was at ExxonMobil,
there was a lot of not things, things I did not like at ExxonMobil, but this is something I really
liked is about once a quarter, they would do a crowdsourced data science competition for the
whole organization, like around the entire world. And they would say, this is a business problem
we're trying to solve. And at Exxon, we have data scientists all over the world and like all
sorts of different teams and things like that. So I did not know all the data scientists at Exxon.
And they'd say, this is the problem we're facing. Here's the data, go. Right.
Nice. Yeah.
I loved participating in these. It was like right up my wheelhouse of like,
I really enjoy exploration and all this stuff. At the time I was getting my master's degree,
but I didn't have my master's degree and I was competing against, so I'm just a chemical
engineering grad, right? And I'm competing against people with PhDs in computer science
and in data science and all these people who have way more experience than me.
And I actually won a few of these competitions. Thank you. I appreciate it. And it's not because
I was a better programmer or a better data scientist. It's because I majored in chemical
engineering and I knew the business problem, the domain extremely well. And I kind of knew
the programming and the data science stuff, but the combination of them made me very valuable.
Like one of the best examples I have is we were looking at crude oil properties. And I remember
there was a forum where you'd ask your questions. And one of the data scientists asked, "Hey,
is sulfur bad? There's lots of sulfur in this. Is it bad?" And to a chemical engineer,
that's like the most obvious thing. No, you, yes, sulfur is very bad in crude oil. That's very no,
no. That's like such a fundamental thing to me and to him or her that was like groundbreaking.
And so, yeah, your domain can become your superpower in your career.
Yeah. And it makes it way harder for ChatGPT and other types of tools to just automate you out of
a job because you bring in all these skills together, which is awesome. But it also makes
it easier for you to get the job. It makes it easier for you to continue your momentum of
whatever you've been up to. It's good all around. Yeah. I think it's more fun too,
because once again, when I was trying to decide if I should study computer science, I was like,
"Man, I don't really want to build an Excel workbook for building an Excel workbook sake."
That's still true for me today. I don't want to do data science for data science sake.
I only like machine learning or data science when I'm doing it to solve a really fun problem I'm
passionate about. That's why it's more fun. So if you can be excited about the domain
and excited about the algorithms, I think that's a great place to be.
Absolutely agree. All right. We're getting short on time, but maybe tell us a bit about
your Data Career Jumpstart. You've referred to it a couple of times.
Yeah. I have a company called Data Career Jumpstart. I just try to do a lot of education.
So the education happens on LinkedIn, happens on YouTube. And I actually forgot to mention this at
the beginning, but I have my own podcast called the Data Career Podcast, where I help people
land their first data job. We're about at a hundred episodes. So not quite the groundwork
that you've put in. That's still a ton. That's awesome.
Yeah. We're getting there. And then, yeah, I also have a bootcamp where I try to affordably help
people land their first data analyst position by teaching them the skills, the networking,
and the project and portfolio building that they need to do so.
Like the long version of this show. Yeah. Basically, yeah. Just take what
we talked about today, expand on it, make it like 350 unique lessons. And that's exactly what it is.
Yeah. Very cool. All right. Well, we're about out of time. So maybe just every final call to action,
people, maybe you're inspired. I see Diego out in the audience said awesome talk very much. So
what's next? It's easy to be inspired, but you got to take action.
Yeah. I love that. I think it's always fun to listen to podcasts, but you probably benefit way
more from the action you take after a podcast. So for you guys who are maybe interested in a data
analytics or a data science career, explore that. If you're like, yes, I'm in, make a plan,
make a roadmap. If you need help, I have a webinar that will help you make a roadmap.
What skills should you learn? How should you be networking and stuff like that?
But really probably if you're just getting started, trying to figure out what skills you
should learn, what are the top skills that you should be learning? And then learning those
skills. And then not only learning those skills, but take action and learning and build some sort
of a project that we talked about that you could put on a portfolio, make a Streamlit app or
something like that. That's probably the best action you could possibly take. If you need any
ideas, advice, feel free to check out my website, datacareerjumpster.com or the podcast,
Data Career Podcast. Hopefully there's lots of free resources for you guys to check that out.
If you've never seen Streamlit before, I have some YouTube videos about Streamlit that you
guys can check out, but I love it. Just take action somehow, do something.
That's one of the huge, huge differentiators is like, you might be inspired, but you just
got to start taking those steps and it becomes a snowball. So thanks for sharing all your experience
and your advice. Hopefully some people out there are taking action and yeah, I'll put
out everything we talked about in the show notes, of course. So thanks for being here, Avery.
Yeah, thank you. Thanks for having me. Appreciate it.
You bet. Bye all.
This has been another episode of Talk Python to Me. Thank you to our sponsors. Be sure to check
out what they're offering. It really helps support the show. Take some stress out of your life. Get
notified immediately about errors and performance issues in your web or mobile applications with
Sentry. Just visit talkpython.fm/sentry and get started for free. And be sure to use the promo
code, talkpython, all one word. This episode is sponsored by Posit Connect from the makers of
Shiny. Publish, share and deploy all of your data projects that you're creating using Python.
Streamlit, Dash, Shiny, Bokeh, FastAPI, Flask, Quarto, Reports, Dashboards and APIs. Posit Connect
supports all of them. Try Posit Connect for free by going to talkpython.fm/posit. P-O-S-I-T.
Want to level up your Python? We have one of the largest catalogs of Python video courses over at
Talk Python. Our content ranges from true beginners to deeply advanced topics like memory and async.
And best of all, there's not a subscription in sight. Check it out for yourself at training.talkpython.fm.
Be sure to subscribe to the show, open your favorite podcast app and search for Python.
We should be right at the top. You can also find the iTunes feed at /iTunes, the Google Play feed
at /play, and the direct RSS feed at /rss on talkpython.fm. We're live streaming most of our
recordings these days. If you want to be part of the show and have your comments featured on the
air, be sure to subscribe to our YouTube channel at talkpython.fm/youtube. This is your host,
Michael Kennedy. Thanks so much for listening. I really appreciate it. Now get out there and
write some Python code.
[Music]